All right.
So let's start building out the logic of our changing headline text.
The first thing I'd actually like to do is to create a new component called headline, and headline
will represent just that changing bit of text.
The primary header that says things like Build for everyone or design for everyone, as well as the
second header that says Find your next job at Baba Corp..
So I want to isolate that piece of the DOM to its own component, just so we can not pack too much logic
into our hero component, because our hero represents that entire primary section of the page and this
is just our kind of header or a headline.
So I'm going to create a new component and I'm going to call it headline view.
And we know that drill by now.
We need a template and we need a script section.
And in my template, I'm just going to create a section tag and I'm going to add an H1.
And for now we're just going to hard code.
Some text later on will make it dynamic.
So don't worry.
I'm going to begin with build for everyone.
And then below I'll put an H2 and that'll be find your next job at Baba Corp..
That's the name of my fictional company.
Feel free to give your company whatever name you want.
All right.
And down below here, I'm going to export default my JavaScript object, which represents my configuration
for this component.
As always, we want to use the name of property and I'll call this component headline and we're not
going to be done just yet.
There is a two things I want to show you here.
The first is that we're going to use the created hook, which we talked about earlier, the created
lifecycle hook, which runs automatically when the component is created, but before it's actually mounted
in the browser.
And that's eventually going to be where we want to kick off the logic to tell you to change our text
every 5 seconds.
So in order to do that, we're going to need to combine a couple of new ideas.
We're going to need to have data, the data method in our component, because we're going to need some
piece of data that will be changing every 5 seconds.
And then in our lifecycle hook, we're actually going to need to wire up the logic to tell you to change
that data every 5 seconds and to what.
So to just start wiring up that plumbing, I'm going to add my data method and in here I'll return my
JavaScript object.
And for now this is not going to be permanent.
But just to give you an example, I'm going to have a property called Sample and I'm going to make it
equal to Hello, this is just a sample property set to a string of hello.
And what I want to show you is that in our lifecycle cycle hooks we can actually reference our data.
Properties are going to exist during certain lifecycle hooks and they're going to exist, for example,
during our created lifecycle.
So as we saw earlier.
If we want to use a life cycle hook, we just write it's method name within our configuration object.
So we're going to write our created lifecycle hook.
And here all I want to do is console.log the value of the sample data property.
So I'm going to console.log a string of Hey, I have been created, my data exists and maybe something
funny like look and then we can actually provide multiple arguments to console.log, to print out multiple
values.
And what do I want to print out?
I want to print out the value of sample and I can get that again using the this keyword, all of our
data properties will be available under this keyword.
So it's going to be this dot sample, save that, add a line break right here and that's the basics
of our headline component.
But of course we also need to render it.
So what I'm going to do is head into my hero component.
And scroll down.
We no longer need these life cycle hooks.
These were just, for example, and for educational purposes, so we can go ahead and remove them.
And then, of course, I want to import my headline component, so I'll do that below my script tag.
I'll import headline from act components, headline that view.
And then of course, I need to register it as a local component by using my components key and providing
it here using the S syntax, which enables us to use headline anywhere in this template.
And I want to insert it right here.
This is in our collection of five columns, or rather the box that spans the width of five columns of
our 12 column grid.
Since that of rendering this text, let's go ahead and start rendering our headline.
That's going to be a self-closing component.
So just like that.
And now when I navigate to my browser.
We should be able to see.
There is a headline.
We're starting to get things into the right position.
Build for everyone.
Find your next job at Bubba Corp. and if I go to my console and refresh, we're going to see that created
life cycle hook run and it says Hello or Hey, I've been created, my data exists.
Look, hello.
And that's just proof that we're getting access to our data properties within the created lifecycle.
That's a good piece of information to know because obviously we're going to need to not just get access
to that data, but overwrite it and furthermore tell you to overwrite it every number of seconds.
And our hope is that if we can set that up in the created hook and it's always running when the component
starts, then every 5 seconds we'll get it to run.
Vue will change its data.
Vue will automatically re render and we should be able to get this text to change dynamically every
a number of seconds.
So we're going to continue chipping away at this idea in the very next lesson.